
NAME

     rpcbind -- universal addresses to RPC program number mapper


SYNOPSIS

     rpcbind [-6adiLlsWw] [-h bindip]


DESCRIPTION

     The rpcbind utility is a server that converts RPC program numbers into
     universal addresses.  It must be running on the host to be able to make
     RPC calls on a server on that machine.

     When an RPC service is started, it tells rpcbind the address at which it
     is listening, and the RPC program numbers it is prepared to serve.  When
     a client wishes to make an RPC call to a given program number, it first
     contacts rpcbind on the server machine to determine the address where RPC
     requests should be sent.

     The rpcbind utility should be started before any other RPC service.  Nor-
     mally, standard RPC servers are started by port monitors, so rpcbind must
     be started before port monitors are invoked.

     When rpcbind is started, it checks that certain name-to-address transla-
     tion-calls function correctly.  If they fail, the network configuration
     databases may be corrupt.  Since RPC services cannot function correctly
     in this situation, rpcbind reports the condition and terminates.

     The rpcbind utility can only be started by the super-user.

     Access control is provided by /etc/hosts.allow and /etc/hosts.deny, as
     described in hosts_access(5) with daemon name rpcbind.

OPTIONS

     -6      Bind to AF_INET6 (IPv6) addresses only.

     -a      When debugging (-d), abort on errors.

     -d      Run in debug mode.  In this mode, will print additional information
	         during operation, and will abort on certain errors if -a is also
			 specified.  With this option, the name-to-address translation 
			 consistency checks are shown in detail.

     -h bindip
             IP addresses to bind to when servicing TCP and UDP requests.
             This option may be specified multiple times and is typically nec-
             essary when running on a multi-homed host.  If no -h option is
             specified, rpcbind will bind to INADDR_ANY, which could lead to
             problems on a multi-homed host due to rpcbind returning a UDP
             packet from a different IP address than it was sent to.  Note
             that when specifying IP addresses with -h, rpcbind will automati-
             cally add 127.0.0.1 and if IPv6 is enabled, ::1 to the list.

     -i      ``Insecure'' mode.  Allows calls to SET and UNSET from any host.
             Normally rpcbind accepts these requests only from the loopback
             interface for security reasons.  This change is necessary for
             programs that were compiled with earlier versions of the rpc
             library and do not make those requests using the loopback inter-
             face.

     -L      Allows old-style local connections over the loopback interface.
             Without this flag, local connections are only allowed over a
             local socket (named pipe), /var/run/rpcbind.sock.

     -l      Turns on libwrap connection logging [WIN32 not applicable].

     -s      Causes rpcbind to change to the user daemon as soon as possible.
             This causes rpcbind to use non-privileged ports for outgoing con-
             nections, preventing non-privileged clients from using rpcbind to
             connect to services from a privileged port [not supported].

     -W      Enable libwrap (TCP wrappers) support [WIN32 not applicable].

     -w      Enable the warmstart feature [not enabled].

             The warmstart feature saves RPC registrations on termination.
             Any saved RPC registrations are restored on restart if -w is
             specified.  This feature helps avoid RPC service interruption
             when restarting rpcbind.  warmstart support must be compiled in
             to rpcbind.  Portmap registrations are stored in
             /tmp/portmap.file.  rpcbind registrations are stored in
             /tmp/rpcbind.file.

NOTES

     All RPC servers must be restarted if rpcbind is restarted.
